At the moment, we're still using our user subject in our application and let me simply comment this
out
so that we get errors that point us at the files which we now have to update to use our @ngrx/store instead.
This is a nice trick to find all the places we now have to update and that starts with the auth interceptor.
In the auth interceptor,
we're using the auth service and we're accessing our user. Now
that is a good example for a place where we now want to use our @ngrx/store.
So in here, let's inject our store of type store, as before store needs to be imported from @ngrx/store
and it still is a generic type,
so again we should import everything as from app from our root store folder and there from the app
reducer file
and then here the type would be fromApp.AppState describing how our state looks like in this application.
Now here where I refer to this auth service user,
now we can instead just use this store select auth and now of course, I'm interested in getting my user
out of that part of the global state.
I don't want to take the entire auth state,
this is an object with a user property,
I'm just interested in the value of that user property,
so in that concrete user we have here.
Good thing is select gives us an observable, so we can call pipe and I only want to get one snapshot
here, so take one
still is correct, I want to have that here but now I'll add an extra step before we continue with the
user
because right now, what we have, what we get here is not the user,
instead it's an object with a user property,
that's a difference though.
So we'll add the map operator here which you therefore have to import from rxjs/operators and
with the map operator added, what we get here is our auth state in the end.
So here, my goal then is to map this auth state into something new.
Now this auth state here will have a user property, so I can access auth state user and the IDE in TypeScript
understand this automatically because I'm selecting the auth slice here and I define in my AppState
setup,
if have a look at that app reducer real quick,
I define that the app state has a shopping list and an auth part and the auth part has the from auth
state interface or structure and therefore, this in turn comes from the auth reducer,
it's this interface and this all comes together in the auth interceptor where I do select my auth
slice here and therefore TypeScript is able to resolve which kind of data I'm getting here.
I'm getting my auth state, here I can then access the user property and therefore this is now mapped into
a new observable which then reaches my next step which takes just that user that's inside of that observable.
So now, this should work fine actually.
With that, we have two more errors in the auth guard and in the header component, let's move on to the
auth guard first.
Here again, I'm using my auth service user and just as before, we can simply fix that by injecting the
store here instead, of type store, again imported from @ngrx/store and again, we need to import the description
or the interface describing our AppState,
so import everything as from app from our root store app reducer
and then here the
generic type when we inject store is fromApp.AppState.
Again, this gives us the advantage that we're now able to use this store select, select auth here
and again we pipe,
don't know why it's coloring this in such a strange way but it's the same code as before, we now
pipe take one which is good
but now before mapping the user, actually what we get is not the user but the auth state,
so we need another map operator where we now get our auth state and what we return here is auth state.
user
and now this gets wrapped into a new observable which then can be handled as before in here. And with
that, let's move onto the header component. There,
I'm also interested in my auth service and in my user, I subscribe to changes in my user and therefore,
we should do the same here,
now by injecting the store, just as before import it from @ngrx/store and also just as before, now we
should import our AppState from the app reducer in the store folder so that we can assign this type
here and get good autocompletion and TypeScript support
and then here, we're not using this auth service user but instead, this store select auth. Then here, I am
subscribing and I get my user,
again this is not how it works,
what select auth gives us is instead not our user but it's an object where we have a user property, hence
we can simply add pipe, add the map operator which you need to import from rxjs/operators and
with that added here, we can use that auth state
and now I'm using a quick inline statement because we only have one expression which we instantly return,
so here this does exactly the same as we did before in the auth interceptor and the auth guard. I'm getting
my auth state, I'm pulling out the user, I'm returning that here in the map operator so that the next step
in line really gets an observable that resolves to a user.
Now all these parts should be fixed, it compiles fine,
let's see if it works as expected,
auto login seems to work,
let's see if we can fetch data and therefore if our interceptor works, that all seems to work, let's fetch
again,
yes
and logging out also works and the header is also updated correctly,
logging in is also looking good.
So this all seems to work and now we're managing this main authentication flow with NgRx as well.